# tic-tac-toe DApp

tic-tac-toe is a DApp written in Python that simulates a tic-tac-toe match with the help of the [Python Mathematical Expression Evaluator (`py-expression-eval`)](https://pypi.org/project/py-expression-eval/).

The DApp receives custom instructions to the begin match and place marker on the table as inputs and generates notices with the current table.
For example, the following expression is a valid input as the first place beign the oponent's address, the second beign the X placement and the third beign the Y placement:

```
0x1234567890,2,1
```

## Interacting with the application

We can use the [frontend-console](../frontend-console) application to interact with the DApp.
Ensure that the [application has already been built](../frontend-console/README.md#building) before using it.

First, go to a separate terminal window and switch to the `frontend-console` directory:

```shell
cd frontend-console
```

Then, send an input as follows:

```shell
yarn start input send --payload "0x1234567890,2,1"
```

In order to verify the notices generated by your inputs, run the command:

```shell
yarn start notice list
```

The payload of the notice should be `""`.

## Running the environment in host mode

When developing an application, it is often important to easily test and debug it. For that matter, it is possible to run the Cartesi Rollups environment in [host mode](../README.md#host-mode), so that the DApp's back-end can be executed directly on the host machine, allowing it to be debugged using regular development tools such as an IDE.

This DApp's back-end is written in Python, so to run it in your machine you need to have `python3` installed.

In order to start the tic-tac-toe back-end, run the following commands in a dedicated terminal:

```shell
cd tic-tac-toe/
python3 -m venv .env
. .env/bin/activate
pip install -r requirements.txt
ROLLUP_HTTP_SERVER_URL="http://127.0.0.1:5004" python3 tic-tac-toe.py
```

This will run the tic-tac-toe back-end and send the corresponding notices to port `5004`.
It can optionally be configured in an IDE to allow interactive debugging using features like breakpoints.

You can also use a tool like [entr](https://eradman.com/entrproject/) to restart the back-end automatically when the code changes. For example:

```shell
ls *.py | ROLLUP_HTTP_SERVER_URL="http://127.0.0.1:5004" entr -r python3 tic-tac-toe.py
```

After the back-end successfully starts, it should print an output like the following:

```log
INFO:__main__:HTTP rollup_server url is http://127.0.0.1:5004
INFO:__main__:Sending finish
```

After that, you can interact with the application normally [as explained above](#interacting-with-the-application).
